README.md, before:

# ForgetMeNot - Dementia Care Assistant System

A multimodal AI system for dementia care that combines real-time audio processing, face recognition, and contextual memory assistance to help patients recognize people in their lives through augmented reality glasses.

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Data Flow](#data-flow)
- [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Services](#services)
- [API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)
- [Voice Features](#voice-features)
- [Face Recognition System](#face-recognition-system)
- [Training and Fine-tuning](#training-and-fine-tuning)
- [Performance Optimization](#performance-optimization)
- [Future Improvements](#future-improvements)

## Overview

ForgetMeNot is a comprehensive dementia care system that helps patients recognize people in their lives through contextual cues. The system combines real-time audio processing, face recognition, and AI-powered context aggregation to provide meaningful reminders through augmented reality glasses.

The system consists of multiple interconnected services:
1. **Main Backend Service** - Handles WebRTC audio/video streams and core application logic
2. **Face Recognition Service** - Provides real face detection and embedding extraction
3. **Inference Service** - Processes conversation data and generates contextual reminders
4. **Frontend Application** - Web interface for system interaction and AR display simulation

## Key Features

- **Real-time Audio Processing**: WebRTC-based audio streaming with noise reduction, voice activity detection, and speaker diarization
- **Face Recognition**: MTCNN-based face detection and FaceNet-based embedding extraction
- **Multi-Image Enrollment**: Improved recognition accuracy through multiple image captures
- **Contextual Memory Assistance**: AI-powered conversation analysis and context aggregation
- **Augmented Reality Display**: AR glasses simulation for displaying person information
- **Cloud Integration**: Optional cloud-based processing for reduced local CPU load
- **MongoDB Storage**: Persistent storage of person profiles, face embeddings, and conversation history
- **Voice Conversation Logging**: Full word-for-word transcription and storage of all conversations
- **Automatic Face Recognition**: No manual intervention required for face recognition

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[User/Patient] --> B[Frontend Application]
    B --> C[Main Backend Service<br/>Port 8000]
    C --> D[(MongoDB<br/>dementia_care_db)]
    C --> E[Face Recognition Service<br/>Port 8001]
    C --> F[Inference Service<br/>Port 8002]
    F --> D
    E --> D
    G[AR Glasses] --> H[SSE Stream<br/>/stream/inference]
    C --> H
    
    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#fff3e0
    style E fill:#e8f5e8
    style F fill:#e8f5e8
    style G fill:#e1f5fe
    style H fill:#f1f8e9
```

## Data Flow

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Webcam/Audio<br/>Input] --> B[Frontend<br/>WebRTC Stream]
    B --> C[Main Backend<br/>WebRTC Ingest]
    C --> D[Audio Pipeline<br/>Denoising/VAD/Speaker Diarization]
    D --> E[Whisper<br/>Transcription]
    E --> F[Inference Service<br/>Context Analysis]
    F --> G[MongoDB<br/>Context Storage]
    C --> H[Face Recognition<br/>Service]
    H --> I[MTCNN/FaceNet<br/>Embedding Extraction]
    I --> G
    G --> J[AR Display<br/>Context Retrieval]
    J --> K[Frontend/SSE<br/>AR Overlay]
    
    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#e8f5e8
    style E fill:#e8f5e8
    style F fill:#e8f5e8
    style G fill:#fff3e0
    style H fill:#e8f5e8
    style I fill:#e8f5e8
    style J fill:#e8f5e8
    style K fill:#f3e5f5
```

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Real-time Communication**: WebRTC (aiortc)
- **Audio Processing**: PyTorch, Whisper, pyannote.audio
- **Database**: MongoDB with PyMongo
- **Face Recognition**: MTCNN, FaceNet (ResNet-50)

### Frontend
- **Framework**: Next.js (React)
- **UI Library**: shadcn/ui, Tailwind CSS
- **Face Detection**: face-api.js
- **Real-time Communication**: WebRTC, Server-Sent Events (SSE)

### Inference & Training
- **AI Platform**: Fireworks.ai
- **Models**: Llama 3.1 8B Instruct (fine-tuned)
- **Data Processing**: Python, NumPy

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB (local or remote)
- ffmpeg (required by Whisper)
- Hugging Face account with access to pyannote/embedding

### Environment Setup

1. Create a `.env` file at the project root:
   ```env
   PYANNOTE_AUTH_TOKEN=hf_...
   FIREWORKS_API_KEY=fw_...
   MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
   MONGODB_DATABASE=dementia_care_db
   ```

2. Install main project dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Install face recognition service dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd backend/face_recognition_service
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   cd ../..
   ```

4. Install frontend dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

## Usage

### Starting Services

#### Option 1: Use the startup script (Recommended)
```bash
python start_all_services.py
```

#### Option 2: Start services manually

Terminal 1: Face Recognition Service
```bash
cd backend/face_recognition_service
python main.py
```

Terminal 2: Main Backend
```bash
python -m uvicorn backend.app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

Terminal 3: Inference Service
```bash
cd inference
python main.py
```

Terminal 4: Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000/`, allow camera/mic access, and monitor the server logs.

## Services

### Main Backend Service (Port 8000)

Handles WebRTC audio/video ingestion, face recognition integration, and person management.

#### Key Components:
- WebRTC ingress for real-time audio/video
- Audio pipeline with denoising, VAD segmentation, speaker embedding
- Whisper transcription
- MongoDB Atlas vector-store integration
- Face recognition service integration
- Person profile management

### Face Recognition Service (Port 8001)

Provides real face detection and embedding extraction using state-of-the-art models.

#### Features:
- Face detection using MTCNN
- Face embedding extraction using FaceNet (ResNet-50)
- Multi-image enrollment support for better accuracy
- Model version tracking

### Inference Service (Port 8002)

Processes conversation data and generates contextual reminders for AR display.

#### Key Functions:
- Consumes conversation events from main backend
- Aggregates conversation context using AI models
- Generates AR display descriptions
- Streams results via Server-Sent Events

## API Endpoints

### Main Backend Service (Port 8000)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | GET | Main frontend interface |
| `/stream/inference` | GET | SSE stream of person detection events |
| `/ws/audio` | WebSocket | Audio streaming endpoint |
| `/person` | POST | Create new person |
| `/person/{person_id}` | PUT | Update existing person |
| `/people` | GET | List all people |
| `/face/embedding` | POST | Store face embedding for a person |
| `/face/recognize` | POST | Recognize person by face embedding |
| `/voice/transcribe_and_store` | POST | Transcribe audio and store conversation |
| `/voice/infer_identity_from_audio` | POST | Infer name and relationship from audio |
| `/voice/handle_unknown_speaker` | POST | Handle unknown speaker |
| `/voice/last_conversation/{person_id}` | GET | Get last conversation summary |
| `/voice/log_conversation` | POST | Log conversation with full transcript |
| `/voice/context/{person_id}` | GET | Get conversation context for person |
| `/person/promote_temporary` | POST | Promote temporary person to permanent |

### Face Recognition Service (Port 8001)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/health` | GET | Service health check |
| `/extract_embedding` | POST | Extract face embedding from image |

### Inference Service (Port 8002)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | GET | Service information |
| `/health` | GET | Health check with queue status |
| `/stream/inference` | GET | SSE stream of processed inference results |

## Voice Features

### Voice Conversation Logging and Recall

The system implements comprehensive voice conversation logging and recall functionality:

#### Audio → Text → DB (Word-for-Word)

1. **Transcription**: Uses Whisper (tiny model) to transcribe full audio clips word-for-word
2. **Storage**: Stores complete conversation text without truncation or aggressive summarization
3. **Dual Storage**: 
   - Full history in `conversations` collection
   - Recent history in `conversation_history` array in person documents

#### POST /voice/log_conversation

Logs a conversation by transcribing audio and storing the full transcript.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001", // Optional
  "direction": "to_patient" or "from_patient" or "dialogue",
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001",
  "text": "Full transcribed text from audio",
  "stored": true
}
```

#### GET /voice/context/{person_id}

Retrieves the conversation context for a person.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001",
  "conversations": [
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
      "direction": "to_patient",
      "text": "Full conversation text",
      "source": "voice"
    }
  ],
  "short_summary": "Brief contextual summary"
}
```

### Last Conversation Memory Per Person

The implementation uses a dual-level storage approach:

#### Full History Storage
- **Collection**: `conversations`
- **Document Structure**:
  ```json
  {
    "person_id": "person_001",
    "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
    "direction": "to_patient",
    "text": "Hello, how are you today?",
    "source": "voice"
  }
  ```

#### Recent History Storage
- **Field**: `conversation_history` in the person document
- **Structure**: Array of conversation entries (last 20 entries)
  ```json
  {
    "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
    "direction": "to_patient",
    "text": "Hello, how are you today?",
    "source": "voice"
  }
  ```

### Extract Name and Relationship from Voice-Only Conversations

For initially unknown speakers, the system can extract identity information:

#### POST /voice/infer_identity_from_audio

Infers name and relationship from audio transcript for unknown speakers.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "transcript": "Hi, I'm John, your son.",
  "extracted": {
    "name": {
      "value": "John",
      "confidence": 0.9
    },
    "relationship": {
      "value": "son",
      "confidence": 0.9
    }
  }
}
```

#### POST /voice/handle_unknown_speaker

Handles unknown speakers by inferring identity and creating temporary person documents.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "unknown_20231001_100000_a1b2c3d4",
  "name": "John",
  "relationship": "son",
  "is_temporary": true,
  "identity_confidence": {
    "name": {
      "value": "John",
      "confidence": 0.9
    },
    "relationship": {
      "value": "son",
      "confidence": 0.9
    }
  },
  "aggregated_context": "Inferred from voice-only conversation",
  "cached_description": "Inferred from voice-only conversation",
  "last_updated": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
  "face_embeddings": [],
  "voice_profile": null,
  "conversation_history": [
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
      "direction": "from_patient",
      "text": "Hi, I'm John, your son.",
      "source": "voice"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Enhanced Features (v2)

#### Confidence Mechanism
- Enhanced extraction with confidence scores for both name and relationship
- Confidence calculation based on pattern strength:
  - Strong patterns (confidence 0.8-0.9): "my name is X", "i'm your Y X", "i am your Y X"
  - Medium patterns (confidence 0.6-0.7): "i am X", "i'm X", "this is X"
  - Weak patterns (confidence 0.5-0.6): Basic name mentions

#### Audio Performance Improvements
- Duration limiting: Maximum audio duration per request is 30 seconds
- Transcription caching: In-memory cache with configurable size (default: 100 entries)

#### Enhanced Last Conversation UX
- Richer response with messages, short_summary, and keywords
- Lightweight, deterministic summarization
- Keyword extraction using basic NLP techniques

#### Temporary Person Lifecycle Management
- Enhanced temporary person model with confidence information
- Promotion endpoint to convert temporary persons to permanent

## Face Recognition System

### Technical Details

The face recognition system uses a production-ready implementation with:

1. **Face Detection**: MTCNN for accurate face detection
2. **Face Alignment**: Crops and resizes faces to 160x160 pixels
3. **Embedding Extraction**: ResNet-50 backbone to generate 128-dimensional embeddings
4. **Model Versioning**: Tracks model version for future compatibility

### Multi-Image Enrollment

For improved recognition accuracy, the system supports multi-image enrollment:

1. **Capture**: Users can capture 3-5 images from different angles
2. **Processing**: Each image is processed to extract face embeddings
3. **Averaging**: Embeddings are averaged to improve recognition accuracy
4. **Storage**: Averaged embedding is stored with model version information

### Automatic Face Recognition

The system automatically recognizes faces when someone enters the camera frame:

1. When new faces are detected by the face detection system:
   - Filter out faces that were recently recognized (within 30 seconds)
   - Select the most prominent face (largest bounding box × confidence)
   - Automatically trigger face recognition
2. If face is recognized:
   - Display person information immediately
3. If face is unknown:
   - Create temporary person entry
   - Start listening for name identification through voice

### Error Handling

1. **Model Loading**: Graceful fallback when face-api.js models fail to load
2. **Network Errors**: Proper error messages for service connectivity issues
3. **Validation**: Input validation for all API endpoints
4. **Logging**: Comprehensive logging for debugging and monitoring

## Training and Fine-tuning

### Context Aggregation Model

The system uses fine-tuned LLMs for context processing:

**Purpose**: Takes previous context + current conversation and outputs updated detailed context

**Training Process**:
1. Generate synthetic training data (990 examples)
2. Upload dataset to Fireworks.ai
3. Create fine-tuning job
4. Monitor until completion
5. Integrate fine-tuned model into inference service

### AR Display Model

Generates concise, actionable descriptions for AR display:

**Purpose**: Takes person name, relationship, and verbose context and outputs one-line specific description

**Features**:
- Focus on specific, memorable details
- Include time references
- Keep to one sentence (15-20 words)
- No person name or relationship in output

## Performance Optimization

### For Lower-End Hardware (i3 Laptops)

The application includes several optimizations:
- Reduced sample rate (8kHz instead of 16kHz)
- Limited concurrent sessions to 1
- Reduced minimum conversation time
- Cloud-based AI processing when credentials are available

### Cloud Services

Optional cloud-based processing to reduce CPU load:
1. **Hugging Face API**: Used for speaker embedding models (pyannote/embedding)
2. **Fireworks.ai API**: Used for Whisper speech-to-text transcription

When API keys are provided, heavy AI processing is offloaded to cloud services, making the application much more responsive on lower-end hardware.

## Future Improvements

1. **GPU Acceleration**: Add CUDA support for faster inference
2. **Advanced Models**: Implement ArcFace or InsightFace for better accuracy
3. **Model Caching**: Cache models for faster loading
4. **Batch Processing**: Process multiple faces in a single image
5. **Real-time Recognition**: Implement real-time face recognition in video streams
6. **Improved Summarization**: Use LLM for more sophisticated conversation summaries
7. **Enhanced NLP**: More robust name and relationship extraction with context awareness
8. **Caregiver Confirmation**: Implement endpoint for caregiver to confirm/override inferred identities
9. **Voice Profile Enrollment**: Integration with existing voice profile enrollment workflow
10. **Multi-language Support**: Extend name/relationship extraction for other languages

Commit message:

Updated README.md: Expanded description about dementia support and removed table of contents

README.md, after:

# ForgetMeNot - Dementia Care Assistant System

A multimodal AI system designed to support people with dementia by helping them recognize and remember loved ones through real-time audio processing, face recognition, and contextual memory assistance. This innovative solution combines cutting-edge artificial intelligence with augmented reality technology to provide meaningful cognitive support through AR glasses, helping individuals with dementia maintain connections with family members and friends. The system addresses the progressive memory loss and recognition difficulties that characterize dementia by offering gentle, context-aware reminders and personalized information displays that enhance daily interactions and quality of life for both patients and their families.

## Overview

ForgetMeNot is a comprehensive dementia care system that helps patients recognize people in their lives through contextual cues. The system combines real-time audio processing, face recognition, and AI-powered context aggregation to provide meaningful reminders through augmented reality glasses.

The system consists of multiple interconnected services:
1. **Main Backend Service** - Handles WebRTC audio/video streams and core application logic
2. **Face Recognition Service** - Provides real face detection and embedding extraction
3. **Inference Service** - Processes conversation data and generates contextual reminders
4. **Frontend Application** - Web interface for system interaction and AR display simulation

## Key Features

- **Real-time Audio Processing**: WebRTC-based audio streaming with noise reduction, voice activity detection, and speaker diarization
- **Face Recognition**: MTCNN-based face detection and FaceNet-based embedding extraction
- **Multi-Image Enrollment**: Improved recognition accuracy through multiple image captures
- **Contextual Memory Assistance**: AI-powered conversation analysis and context aggregation
- **Augmented Reality Display**: AR glasses simulation for displaying person information
- **Cloud Integration**: Optional cloud-based processing for reduced local CPU load
- **MongoDB Storage**: Persistent storage of person profiles, face embeddings, and conversation history
- **Voice Conversation Logging**: Full word-for-word transcription and storage of all conversations
- **Automatic Face Recognition**: No manual intervention required for face recognition

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[User/Patient] --> B[Frontend Application]
    B --> C[Main Backend Service<br/>Port 8000]
    C --> D[(MongoDB<br/>dementia_care_db)]
    C --> E[Face Recognition Service<br/>Port 8001]
    C --> F[Inference Service<br/>Port 8002]
    F --> D
    E --> D
    G[AR Glasses] --> H[SSE Stream<br/>/stream/inference]
    C --> H
    
    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#fff3e0
    style E fill:#e8f5e8
    style F fill:#e8f5e8
    style G fill:#e1f5fe
    style H fill:#f1f8e9
```

## Data Flow

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Webcam/Audio<br/>Input] --> B[Frontend<br/>WebRTC Stream]
    B --> C[Main Backend<br/>WebRTC Ingest]
    C --> D[Audio Pipeline<br/>Denoising/VAD/Speaker Diarization]
    D --> E[Whisper<br/>Transcription]
    E --> F[Inference Service<br/>Context Analysis]
    F --> G[MongoDB<br/>Context Storage]
    C --> H[Face Recognition<br/>Service]
    H --> I[MTCNN/FaceNet<br/>Embedding Extraction]
    I --> G
    G --> J[AR Display<br/>Context Retrieval]
    J --> K[Frontend/SSE<br/>AR Overlay]
    
    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style B fill:#f3e5f5
    style C fill:#e8f5e8
    style D fill:#e8f5e8
    style E fill:#e8f5e8
    style F fill:#e8f5e8
    style G fill:#fff3e0
    style H fill:#e8f5e8
    style I fill:#e8f5e8
    style J fill:#e8f5e8
    style K fill:#f3e5f5
```

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Real-time Communication**: WebRTC (aiortc)
- **Audio Processing**: PyTorch, Whisper, pyannote.audio
- **Database**: MongoDB with PyMongo
- **Face Recognition**: MTCNN, FaceNet (ResNet-50)

### Frontend
- **Framework**: Next.js (React)
- **UI Library**: shadcn/ui, Tailwind CSS
- **Face Detection**: face-api.js
- **Real-time Communication**: WebRTC, Server-Sent Events (SSE)

### Inference & Training
- **AI Platform**: Fireworks.ai
- **Models**: Llama 3.1 8B Instruct (fine-tuned)
- **Data Processing**: Python, NumPy

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- Node.js 18+
- MongoDB (local or remote)
- ffmpeg (required by Whisper)
- Hugging Face account with access to pyannote/embedding

### Environment Setup

1. Create a `.env` file at the project root:
   ```env
   PYANNOTE_AUTH_TOKEN=hf_...
   FIREWORKS_API_KEY=fw_...
   MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017
   MONGODB_DATABASE=dementia_care_db
   ```

2. Install main project dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Install face recognition service dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd backend/face_recognition_service
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   cd ../..
   ```

4. Install frontend dependencies:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..
   ```

## Usage

### Starting Services

#### Option 1: Use the startup script (Recommended)
```bash
python start_all_services.py
```

#### Option 2: Start services manually

Terminal 1: Face Recognition Service
```bash
cd backend/face_recognition_service
python main.py
```

Terminal 2: Main Backend
```bash
python -m uvicorn backend.app.main:app --reload --port 8000
```

Terminal 3: Inference Service
```bash
cd inference
python main.py
```

Terminal 4: Frontend
```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000/`, allow camera/mic access, and monitor the server logs.

## Services

### Main Backend Service (Port 8000)

Handles WebRTC audio/video ingestion, face recognition integration, and person management.

#### Key Components:
- WebRTC ingress for real-time audio/video
- Audio pipeline with denoising, VAD segmentation, speaker embedding
- Whisper transcription
- MongoDB Atlas vector-store integration
- Face recognition service integration
- Person profile management

### Face Recognition Service (Port 8001)

Provides real face detection and embedding extraction using state-of-the-art models.

#### Features:
- Face detection using MTCNN
- Face embedding extraction using FaceNet (ResNet-50)
- Multi-image enrollment support for better accuracy
- Model version tracking

### Inference Service (Port 8002)

Processes conversation data and generates contextual reminders for AR display.

#### Key Functions:
- Consumes conversation events from main backend
- Aggregates conversation context using AI models
- Generates AR display descriptions
- Streams results via Server-Sent Events

## API Endpoints

### Main Backend Service (Port 8000)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | GET | Main frontend interface |
| `/stream/inference` | GET | SSE stream of person detection events |
| `/ws/audio` | WebSocket | Audio streaming endpoint |
| `/person` | POST | Create new person |
| `/person/{person_id}` | PUT | Update existing person |
| `/people` | GET | List all people |
| `/face/embedding` | POST | Store face embedding for a person |
| `/face/recognize` | POST | Recognize person by face embedding |
| `/voice/transcribe_and_store` | POST | Transcribe audio and store conversation |
| `/voice/infer_identity_from_audio` | POST | Infer name and relationship from audio |
| `/voice/handle_unknown_speaker` | POST | Handle unknown speaker |
| `/voice/last_conversation/{person_id}` | GET | Get last conversation summary |
| `/voice/log_conversation` | POST | Log conversation with full transcript |
| `/voice/context/{person_id}` | GET | Get conversation context for person |
| `/person/promote_temporary` | POST | Promote temporary person to permanent |

### Face Recognition Service (Port 8001)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/health` | GET | Service health check |
| `/extract_embedding` | POST | Extract face embedding from image |

### Inference Service (Port 8002)

| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | GET | Service information |
| `/health` | GET | Health check with queue status |
| `/stream/inference` | GET | SSE stream of processed inference results |

## Voice Features

### Voice Conversation Logging and Recall

The system implements comprehensive voice conversation logging and recall functionality:

#### Audio → Text → DB (Word-for-Word)

1. **Transcription**: Uses Whisper (tiny model) to transcribe full audio clips word-for-word
2. **Storage**: Stores complete conversation text without truncation or aggressive summarization
3. **Dual Storage**: 
   - Full history in `conversations` collection
   - Recent history in `conversation_history` array in person documents

#### POST /voice/log_conversation

Logs a conversation by transcribing audio and storing the full transcript.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001", // Optional
  "direction": "to_patient" or "from_patient" or "dialogue",
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001",
  "text": "Full transcribed text from audio",
  "stored": true
}
```

#### GET /voice/context/{person_id}

Retrieves the conversation context for a person.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "person_001",
  "conversations": [
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
      "direction": "to_patient",
      "text": "Full conversation text",
      "source": "voice"
    }
  ],
  "short_summary": "Brief contextual summary"
}
```

### Last Conversation Memory Per Person

The implementation uses a dual-level storage approach:

#### Full History Storage
- **Collection**: `conversations`
- **Document Structure**:
  ```json
  {
    "person_id": "person_001",
    "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
    "direction": "to_patient",
    "text": "Hello, how are you today?",
    "source": "voice"
  }
  ```

#### Recent History Storage
- **Field**: `conversation_history` in the person document
- **Structure**: Array of conversation entries (last 20 entries)
  ```json
  {
    "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
    "direction": "to_patient",
    "text": "Hello, how are you today?",
    "source": "voice"
  }
  ```

### Extract Name and Relationship from Voice-Only Conversations

For initially unknown speakers, the system can extract identity information:

#### POST /voice/infer_identity_from_audio

Infers name and relationship from audio transcript for unknown speakers.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "transcript": "Hi, I'm John, your son.",
  "extracted": {
    "name": {
      "value": "John",
      "confidence": 0.9
    },
    "relationship": {
      "value": "son",
      "confidence": 0.9
    }
  }
}
```

#### POST /voice/handle_unknown_speaker

Handles unknown speakers by inferring identity and creating temporary person documents.

**Request Body:**
```json
{
  "audio": "base64_encoded_audio_data"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "person_id": "unknown_20231001_100000_a1b2c3d4",
  "name": "John",
  "relationship": "son",
  "is_temporary": true,
  "identity_confidence": {
    "name": {
      "value": "John",
      "confidence": 0.9
    },
    "relationship": {
      "value": "son",
      "confidence": 0.9
    }
  },
  "aggregated_context": "Inferred from voice-only conversation",
  "cached_description": "Inferred from voice-only conversation",
  "last_updated": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
  "face_embeddings": [],
  "voice_profile": null,
  "conversation_history": [
    {
      "timestamp": "2023-10-01T10:00:00Z",
      "direction": "from_patient",
      "text": "Hi, I'm John, your son.",
      "source": "voice"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Enhanced Features (v2)

#### Confidence Mechanism
- Enhanced extraction with confidence scores for both name and relationship
- Confidence calculation based on pattern strength:
  - Strong patterns (confidence 0.8-0.9): "my name is X", "i'm your Y X", "i am your Y X"
  - Medium patterns (confidence 0.6-0.7): "i am X", "i'm X", "this is X"
  - Weak patterns (confidence 0.5-0.6): Basic name mentions

#### Audio Performance Improvements
- Duration limiting: Maximum audio duration per request is 30 seconds
- Transcription caching: In-memory cache with configurable size (default: 100 entries)

#### Enhanced Last Conversation UX
- Richer response with messages, short_summary, and keywords
- Lightweight, deterministic summarization
- Keyword extraction using basic NLP techniques

#### Temporary Person Lifecycle Management
- Enhanced temporary person model with confidence information
- Promotion endpoint to convert temporary persons to permanent

## Face Recognition System

### Technical Details

The face recognition system uses a production-ready implementation with:

1. **Face Detection**: MTCNN for accurate face detection
2. **Face Alignment**: Crops and resizes faces to 160x160 pixels
3. **Embedding Extraction**: ResNet-50 backbone to generate 128-dimensional embeddings
4. **Model Versioning**: Tracks model version for future compatibility

### Multi-Image Enrollment

For improved recognition accuracy, the system supports multi-image enrollment:

1. **Capture**: Users can capture 3-5 images from different angles
2. **Processing**: Each image is processed to extract face embeddings
3. **Averaging**: Embeddings are averaged to improve recognition accuracy
4. **Storage**: Averaged embedding is stored with model version information

### Automatic Face Recognition

The system automatically recognizes faces when someone enters the camera frame:

1. When new faces are detected by the face detection system:
   - Filter out faces that were recently recognized (within 30 seconds)
   - Select the most prominent face (largest bounding box × confidence)
   - Automatically trigger face recognition
2. If face is recognized:
   - Display person information immediately
3. If face is unknown:
   - Create temporary person entry
   - Start listening for name identification through voice

### Error Handling

1. **Model Loading**: Graceful fallback when face-api.js models fail to load
2. **Network Errors**: Proper error messages for service connectivity issues
3. **Validation**: Input validation for all API endpoints
4. **Logging**: Comprehensive logging for debugging and monitoring

## Training and Fine-tuning

### Context Aggregation Model

The system uses fine-tuned LLMs for context processing:

**Purpose**: Takes previous context + current conversation and outputs updated detailed context

**Training Process**:
1. Generate synthetic training data (990 examples)
2. Upload dataset to Fireworks.ai
3. Create fine-tuning job
4. Monitor until completion
5. Integrate fine-tuned model into inference service

### AR Display Model

Generates concise, actionable descriptions for AR display:

**Purpose**: Takes person name, relationship, and verbose context and outputs one-line specific description

**Features**:
- Focus on specific, memorable details
- Include time references
- Keep to one sentence (15-20 words)
- No person name or relationship in output

## Performance Optimization

### For Lower-End Hardware (i3 Laptops)

The application includes several optimizations:
- Reduced sample rate (8kHz instead of 16kHz)
- Limited concurrent sessions to 1
- Reduced minimum conversation time
- Cloud-based AI processing when credentials are available

### Cloud Services

Optional cloud-based processing to reduce CPU load:
1. **Hugging Face API**: Used for speaker embedding models (pyannote/embedding)
2. **Fireworks.ai API**: Used for Whisper speech-to-text transcription

When API keys are provided, heavy AI processing is offloaded to cloud services, making the application much more responsive on lower-end hardware.

## Future Improvements

1. **GPU Acceleration**: Add CUDA support for faster inference
2. **Advanced Models**: Implement ArcFace or InsightFace for better accuracy
3. **Model Caching**: Cache models for faster loading
4. **Batch Processing**: Process multiple faces in a single image
5. **Real-time Recognition**: Implement real-time face recognition in video streams
6. **Improved Summarization**: Use LLM for more sophisticated conversation summaries
7. **Enhanced NLP**: More robust name and relationship extraction with context awareness
8. **Caregiver Confirmation**: Implement endpoint for caregiver to confirm/override inferred identities
9. **Voice Profile Enrollment**: Integration with existing voice profile enrollment workflow
10. **Multi-language Support**: Extend name/relationship extraction for other languages
